# MSc. Big Data Technologies Dissertation: A Distributed IoT System for Non-Destructive Evaluation of Fitness and Integrity of Concrete Buildings and Structures

Non-destructive evaluations (NDE) are methods used in infrastructure to analyse and audit health of infrastructures in a non-invasive manner. Among these techniques, visual inspection is a popular method due to the ease, reduced cost, and lack of specialized tools to inspect infrastructures. Auditors and professionals in the construction fields can be exposed to unnecessary risks where these NDE are carried in exposed areas, such as high places or areas with little to no protection for the professionals. Moreover, in regions where erosion or damage to infrastructures and buildings is constant, such as areas prone to periodic earthquakes, high frequency movements, or to corrosive environments, periodic audits may be required, elevating costs associated with infrastructure maintenance.

Internet of Things (IoT) are devices with embedded sensors that have network capabilities to connect to internet or networks. IoT devices have revolutionized a multitude of industries due to the low costs, accessibility and simplicity, size, power requirements, and flexibility these devices offer. Moreover, with the aid of data analytics and machine learning (ML), the ability to retrieve and uncover information, as well as to improve processes and tools can increase in different sectors. However, existing architectural designs for distributed system, related to distributed systems integrating IoT and ML tends to limit the abstraction and detail levels that describe these distributed systems and emphasize on the edge components of IoT systems.

This dissertation proposes a 7-layer architecture design for a distributed system that incorporates two principal components, IoT and ML, through a cloud platform to evaluate and demonstrate an NDE distributed system capable of identifying and informing structural integrity.  Additionally, a practical demonstration of a prototype was developed to recommend a viable and low-cost NDE additional tool for professionals in the construction industry. The prototype incorporates a simulation IoT sandbox emulating an IoT device that, connected through a cloud platform, transmits images through a binary classification ML model, and detects fissure events in concrete structure from images transmitted by the emulated IoT device. The information that is generated from the emulated devices is presented to end-users through a dashboard developed through a Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) cloud tool.


This repository contains all the source codes, datasets, and documentation pertaining the design, development, and implementation of the proposed architectural design for an NDE distributed platform for concrete surface fissure detection, which was part of a dissertation submitted in partial fulfilment of the requirements of Glasgow Caledonian University for the degree of Master of Science in Big Data Technologies.

##Contact

Please contact Guillermo Navarro Magana for questions about the source files of this repository.
